documentation/docs/01-getting-started/01-introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

Welcome to Svelte docs. These are for folks who are already familiar with Svelte and want to learn more about the details of how it works.

If that's not you (yet), you may prefer to visit the [interactive tutorial](/tutorial) or the [examples](/examples) before consulting this reference.

Don't be shy about asking for help in the [Discord chatroom](https://svelte.dev/chat).

Using an older version of Svelte? Have a look at the [v2 docs](https://v2.svelte.dev).

## Start a new project

To try Svelte in an interactive online environment you can try [the REPL](https://svelte.dev/repl) or [StackBlitz](https://node.new/svelte).

To create a project locally we recommend using [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/), the official application framework from the Svelte team:

```
npm create svelte@latest myapp
cd myapp
npm install
npm run dev
```

SvelteKit will handle calling [the Svelte compiler](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelte) to convert your `.svelte` files into `.js` files that create the DOM and `.css` files that style it. It also provides all the other pieces you need to build a web application such as a development server, routing, and deployment. [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/) utilizes [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) to build your code and handle server-side rendering (SSR). There are [plugins for all the major web bundlers](https://sveltesociety.dev/tools#bundling) to handle Svelte compilation, which will output `.js` and `.css` that you can insert into your HTML, but most others won't handle SSR.

### Alternatives to SvelteKit

If you don't want to use SvelteKit for some reason, you can also use Svelte with Vite (but without SvelteKit) by running `npm init vite` and selecting the `svelte` option. With this, `npm run build` will generate HTML, JS and CSS files inside the `dist` directory. In most cases, you will probably need to [choose a routing library](/faq#is-there-a-router) as well.

## Differences from SvelteKit

Svelte renders UI components. You can compose these components and render an entire page with just Svelte, but you need more than just Svelte to write an entire app.

SvelteKit provides basic functionality like a [router](https://kit.svelte.dev/glossary#routing) — which updates the UI when a link is clicked — and [server-side rendering (SSR)](https://kit.svelte.dev/glossary#ssr). But beyond that, building an app with all the modern best practices is fiendishly complicated. Those practices include [build optimizations](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#build-optimizations), so that you load only the minimal required code; [offline support](https://kit.svelte.devservice-workers); [preloading](https://kit.svelte.dev/link-options#data-sveltekit-preload-data) pages before the user initiates navigation; [configurable rendering](https://kit.svelte.dev/page-options) that allows you to render different parts of your app on the server with [SSR](https://kit.svelte.dev/glossary#ssr), in the browser [client-side rendering](https://kit.svelte.dev/glossary#csr), or at build-time with [prerendering](https://kit.svelte.dev/glossary#prerendering); and many other things. SvelteKit does all the boring stuff for you so that you can get on with the creative part.

It reflects changes to your code in the browser instantly to provide a lightning-fast and feature-rich development experience by leveraging [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) with a [Svelte plugin](https://github.com/sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte) to do [Hot Module Replacement (HMR)](https://github.com/sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte/blob/main/docs/config.md#hot).

## Editor tooling

The Svelte team maintains a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode) and there are integrations with various other [editors](https://sveltesociety.dev/tools#editor-support) and tools as well.

If you're having trouble, get help on [Discord](https://svelte.dev/chat) or [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/svelte).

Commit message:

tweak docs content (#8675)
* update intro

* update tutorial links

* unitalicise code spans

* Update documentation/docs/01-getting-started/01-introduction.md

Co-authored-by: Ben McCann <322311+benmccann@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update documentation/docs/01-getting-started/01-introduction.md

Co-authored-by: Ben McCann <322311+benmccann@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update documentation/docs/01-getting-started/01-introduction.md

Co-authored-by: Ben McCann <322311+benmccann@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update documentation/docs/01-getting-started/01-introduction.md

Co-authored-by: Ben McCann <322311+benmccann@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Rich Harris <git@rich-harris.dev>
Co-authored-by: Ben McCann <322311+benmccann@users.noreply.github.com>

documentation/docs/01-getting-started/01-introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

Welcome to the Svelte reference documentation! This is intended as a resource for people who already have some familiarity with Svelte and want to learn more about using it.

If that's not you (yet), you may prefer to visit the [interactive tutorial](https://learn.svelte.dev) or the [examples](/examples) before consulting this reference. You can try Svelte online using the [REPL](/repl). Alternatively, if you'd like a more fully-featured environment, you can try Svelte on [StackBlitz](https://sveltekit.new).

## Start a new project

We recommend using [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/), the official application framework from the Svelte team:

```
npm create svelte@latest myapp
cd myapp
npm install
npm run dev
```

SvelteKit will handle calling [the Svelte compiler](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelte) to convert your `.svelte` files into `.js` files that create the DOM and `.css` files that style it. It also provides all the other pieces you need to build a web application such as a development server, routing, deployment, and SSR support. [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/) uses [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) to build your code.

### Alternatives to SvelteKit

If you don't want to use SvelteKit for some reason, you can also use Svelte with Vite (but without SvelteKit) by running `npm init vite` and selecting the `svelte` option. With this, `npm run build` will generate HTML, JS and CSS files inside the `dist` directory. In most cases, you will probably need to [choose a routing library](/faq#is-there-a-router) as well.

Alternatively, there are [plugins for all the major web bundlers](https://sveltesociety.dev/tools#bundling) to handle Svelte compilation — which will output `.js` and `.css` that you can insert into your HTML — but most others won't handle SSR.

## Editor tooling

The Svelte team maintains a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode) and there are integrations with various other [editors](https://sveltesociety.dev/tools#editor-support) and tools as well.

## Getting help

Don't be shy about asking for help in the [Discord chatroom](https://svelte.dev/chat)! You can also find answers on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/svelte).
